why can't everyone through in this
week's IPL d/deaf call its March the
30th 2020 and as every week we go over
the stuff that we've done in the past
week and then go over any news we might
have and discuss open issues or
questions yes and please put a name on
the attendees list although it's almost
complete from the past week so this
should be fine um I started myself so I
work normally on rustically and the past
week has been pretty good because I'm
finally think found a good way of having
custom codec table through the whole
chain of iPod e so the problem is that
you might want to use some custom
correct cable because you have space
limitations or you just have only like
three codecs you always use and in
unlike in other languages like
JavaScript it's quite difficult and go
it comes from somewhere magic and I
think in rust I found a good way of
using generics for it and the internal
code it makes the internal color a bit
more difficult but from the outside it's
just a simple export of a type so you
don't even see the generic if use to
just work if you then need to do
something special like you want to have
a custom table it's still possible it's
a bit more work but yeah it's still
possible so I have to PRS open and they
still need review which might take some
time because it's it gets reviewed by
someone from the foreign team and
they're currently pretty busy but yeah
think that it will end this or next week
and then I will move on working on the I
am blog API again for rust and it should
be easier alright
then next on my list is Michael
yeah yeah so I was sick all last week so
I much changed yeah yeah now that I'm
kind of back into the swing though I
wrote some code last night actually
interesting new snags like there's some
weird lambda throttling that I'm seeing
where I can start like thousands of
concurrent functions but only 50 will
really like complete at a time which is
odd because they're not they're just
stalling and I thought that it was on
the right side pushing stuff in s3 but
then I realized that it's not it's
something to do with actually just
creating car files for JavaScript
without datastore card so I need to
figure out what is going on in there and
maybe sync up with Radha at some point
to figure out what kind of mine would be
hitting some kind of weird limit there I
wrote a an improvement or a feature to
the datastore car library for pulling in
a complete graph not in the turning that
into a CR 2jsi BFS that there's import
and export of car files and then this
sort of graph store stuff that we've
been talking about for a while basically
a storage interface that kept track of
and could give you more information than
just like hey I have this block or not
more like do you add the entire graphs
for all of this I've been starting to
prototype that over in dag DB because I
have that problem when I'm sinking to
the grass around I don't want to suffer
a full graph traversal and I've recently
chosen definitely made some progress
I've been in memory prototype working
right now people can poke at it in life
and that's me Thanks next one is too
much that's too much to report so I
finally landed all of those big Murray
factors in the go IPL d-prime
repo and so all the new interfaces
their own master I did a tag right
before that in case anybody out there is
wanting to not deal with this yet but
I'm excited because these go faster and
they're gonna be a good way forward and
it even includes getting the fancy
dotted syntax that Rob was suggesting
would be nice so you can say like no
package name dot style dot whatever and
that works and so now that that's all
cleared out of the way I've started
working on code gen again I left the old
code run progress behind and sort of
called that lessons learned and did a
clean slate for the new one and that's
going much much faster this time with
the lessons learned so thank goodness
getting a couple of things improved on
this second pass as well like getting
all the infrastructure in place to be
able to support aliasing symbols in the
code gen in case you have an athlet
collision issues I'll be able to be
collide them and this is gonna be able
to get the amount of code needed overall
for especially the assemblers of values
in this new system is kind of
substantial though so as before this is
just going to be a while but most of the
things that were roadblocks the last
time that I was in this area all the
core interface changes make them not
roadblocks anymore so thank goodness the
other fun thing that I learned this week
is of cross language interest probably
unlike most of the things I have talked
about lately I've been looking at
selectors again with reboot I guess
isn't this week but in large part thanks
to him building lots of good test cases
around bag import and export commands
and some car stuff we've discovered that
there are some topologies of data which
querying with selectors is no fun at all
so if you think of selectors as being
very similar to reg X's for structured
data reg X is a plan a linear string
right part of the nature of a reg X is
it depends on the data
before the match in order to decide
where the matches are wait
and in rednecks it depends on the data
after as well but with selectors we just
have the data leading up to and so that
includes effectively the path that you
take it to get to some place not just
the data itself at that point that you
reach and so this means selectors
basically require expanding data and we
can it turns out run into a situation
pretty easily that looks an awful lot
like entity expansion attacks in XML
parses of old sometimes known as the
billion won apps attack basically if you
have a dag that involves a couple of
nodes and then it splits out and then
each of these nodes refers to the same
child notes and then maybe repeat this a
couple of times by the time you get
somewhere down in this tree the number
of different paths that you can take but
still reach the same node can be
exponential and if our definition of
selectors is you have to keep track of
all the paths in order to decide whether
or not you match things this kind of
hurts so we found that that's the case
and now the question is sort of well
okay what do we do about this I'm
probably going to end up doing a couple
of simple things like providing more
control to use your code to say okay if
you're doing the link load in the middle
of this thing you can return this
special I which says skip it's not an
error it's just a skip and that might
get us out of some corners but it's not
very complete solution other more
complete solutions well I don't know
some of this almost brings into question
the whole design principle of selectors
ignore block boundaries because it's
turning out that solving this problem
while ignoring walk boundaries is not
the easiest thing another opportunity to
improve stuff might be a more complex
form of memoization for where we've been
before like story tuple of the cid of
the link that we're traversing and the
selector that we're about to reply to it
and
do some pretty clever memorization but
there's still a lot more complex
questions even lying behind that answer
and it's not something that you can
exactly implement for free I think so
so we've just discovered that question
space this we can start probing it I
guess we'll see where that goes
that's fun anybody have opinions about
the api's for that and how the
ergonomics should be especially sending
me notes and that's it for me Joplin
just to clarify be I mean could you
recalculate the selectors to to do a
different algorithms like you do like a
depth-first versus a breadth-first
search or isn't like there was just one
canonical way of actually traversing the
graph we have defined selectors to be
depth first partially because iterative
deepening depth-first search is one of
my favorite algorithms okay and
breadth-first is larger memory so
depth-first you get basically you have
but I don't know if it really matters
either the problem is as long as the
path that you take to get there is part
of the definition that you're using of
your query then then you reach this
problematic state because that
effectively means you're doing your
search over a tree and not a dag which
means you're stealing the dag into a
tree and that means you get the
exponential expansion and so our options
are do something very clever or change
at that part of the definition and then
you get a very different thing so yeah
it's fun yeah I mean right now we
default to depth-first like that's our
kind of deterministic algorithm today I
mean we could probably add an option
later to change that and then it would
still I mean because that option would
be in the selector we would still have
deterministic selectors that would be
fine but yeah I don't think that it
changes this problem because you can
still
dag is usually duplicated branches where
it's very cheap to create a really large
dag then with that because expensive to
traverse for certain collectors just one
right we can't actually mobilize things
just based on the link CID alone which
you might intuitively think at first
glance but that doesn't work because
it's possible that if you reach the same
data through two different paths your
selector might match one and not match
in the other because of the path that it
took to get there and so the most
obvious thing you can do to memorize is
incorrect which yeah that gets this year
yeah so we have to memorize the
selection criteria for the block and the
block the ID together yeah and so I
think that's probably the outline of the
most correct answer but it's also
somewhat non-trivial to code out so OC
cool um this is Chris hey guys so after
I showed that I fill the schema editor
last week I posted on github pages so
now you can just go that link and use it
which is kind of cool and then I Chi
tweaked the prism J's color syntax
highlighting rules to try to show the
work I guess what would you call it just
how many things better and then kind of
minor issue at the hashmap schema which
I think rod addressed and don't really
have anything on my plate right now so
just again extending the Opera to help
yeah that's it
did the fix for that actually change the
schema no do
and I thinks I know it's just a syntax
change like yeah some keywords okay that
actually wasn't even my real question
real question was like didn't actually
change the the component because like
every to be including them no I and you
you made a comment to me a few weeks ago
when you were touching it that the
schema seemed to be out of sync with
what the code was producing which I
don't know if you if you still want to
stand by that but it does sound
reasonable to me because I I did leave
that code in a in a flux state where I
was doing scheme and stuff and then that
and I hadn't quite synchronized
everything if I feel so I think it does
need some revisiting anyway just to make
sure everything connects but um you know
it's just a shame we don't have tooling
that connects the schema to the code yet
so requests on that scheme and feel free
to send them my way and I can take a
look at it so do you have the impression
that getting a parallel pain that shows
like the JSON version of it is easy okay
it shouldn't be hard you know and I it's
mainly actually a UI interface issue I'm
you know who has an idea about how to do
it in a sensible way I thought about
maybe I'm gonna button that kind of
toggle it between you know one pane like
it is right now and then split pane that
shows a JSON but that was kind my main
thing I'm like I'm not sure how I want
you this UI wise and so I know that
request was me before but that that
makes sense I could do it sure but Jason
is actually really big - so like you
know if you're even just a little bit
down in the document you would have to
be really far down and JSON about quite
so they don't like stay side by side you
can very easily yeah yeah yeah that's a
good point I don't know if having a side
by side is the best user experience I
mean
just say download JSON and they could
download it but that would be nice
little to see it too and then you get
into dialogues or separate pages I don't
know so Estelle's my my main barrier to
actually move forward is what's the best
UX for it I think maybe another tab
right like similar to the like the
preview tab or something right because
you probably do not see it at the exact
same time but if you do want to see you
could just take over this way
yeah that's almost a scrolling sync
issue otherwise I know like some editors
I'm really fond of the hack MD editor
online and they have synchronized
scrolling between the markdown and the
rendering I assume enormous yeah well
I'll think about some more I think I'll
just be a little lazy but I'll figure
out a way of doing it I might even just
do something simple like download as
JSON just to get it done but I think the
UI attack they may work too
there's just no tab controls they have
to kind of implement tabbing myself but
I can find something I'm sure those no
sorry should clarify there was no tab
controlling tachyons which was what I
was appointed to use so I have to it
roll my own or find a view one and
adapted over him so I dig deal but again
just being lazy cool next some of the
rod so highlights for me in my own three
yep highlights for me the looking at the
ego ipfs export import feature that that
has been tied with on I go ipfs it's now
into its it's only he's loud yet and
it's into another iteration so it was
pulled apart into two pull requests over
there hasn't quite landed I think
there's still some discussion I don't
quite understand what they're aiming for
with import but there's some there's
something that they're trying to achieve
with imports
for really fast inputs I don't know
dagger is the word that they've been
using this some project called dagger
for throwing around blocks really fast
so their export is to a car file a
well-formed car file with select you
know essentially using selectors using
Hannah's select what is it select
selective car and IPL d-prime selectors
just basically an all selector for now
but it's it's in place so that it can
use an arbitrary selector which is
really nice and I can imagine a command
line where you would say export CID and
then use Tim's select a shorthand to
exploit a graph they'll be really cool
to see but for now it's just CID and
then it'll get on graph import is that
they're doing this thing where it's just
basically import whatever it can find so
it'll accept a badly formed car so you
know the route doesn't exist in the
thing even they even wanted to do no
routes
but the go Fargo car thing doesn't
support that but there was something
about that like they wanted to make it
really flexible so it was sick except
pretty much anything that looked like a
list of blocks so I don't really
understand what they try to achieve
there fully but yeah I made a made of
version up for JavaScript for JC ipfs so
it roughly mirrors what's going on and
go ipfs same sort of style but oh it
doesn't have tests and I wanted to wait
till all the fixtures and everything
would finish for the go but ipfs before
I put that in I don't think I've heard
from that go the JSI PFS folks whether
they even wanted to accept it because I
know there was some hesitancy before
about adding more weight to JSI PFS so I
sort of like a signal from them before I
invest too much more time in that but it
is fun to see a car file created from an
arbitrary graph like it I pull this
graph out of ipfs the IP efficient exit
Network stick it in a car file for me
that's pretty neat so I like this
feature for
bunch of reasons but it's also
exercising code that we've been working
on so it's nice
anything I'm sorry I hope we can't make
it into juice up the FS because it's
added in the command line stuff so
wouldn't end up in bundles so I don't
know what the objection is like adding
weight well I mean I'm just picking up
on that comment that was on your
original issue where you for open saying
and yeah I think that was I think that
was generally a concern about browsers
so I think that I think that yours
should be shared into that I mean and if
they're added over the the NPM install
size it's like come on like it already
installed like a gig up dependencies
like this is nothing it was like a
rounding error yeah I think and also
that might have been before we really
had all the car file stuff in place for
JavaScript so that maybe they'd thought
was well this is gonna add actually a
lot more complexity of J J's ipfs but
once you implement it with the libraries
we've got now it's like it's like a page
of code it's not right it's not really
that much which is really Dean as well
like it's it's nice to be able to do
something so complex in a small amount
of code so yeah it's neat I've been
diving into some blockchain stuff for
archival purposes and so far I'm looking
at Bitcoin and and Z cache I know Z
cache better than Bitcoin even though
it's really a it's like Bitcoin plus
plus but it's making me aware of the
incompleteness of the like IP LD
libraries we have particularly on
JavaScript
it doesn't match what we haven't go and
go isn't quite up to scratch with what
could be there so I'm looking at the
moment about how much I should invest in
clean up those libraries I think it
would be nice to have
things work well and even seats seats
and things onto the network onto ipfs so
that the IPL the explorer could display
these nicely that'd be really cool like
IPF essex i PFF IPL the explorer could
be like one of those block explorers
that they use to inspect blocks on these
these block chains but of course the
problem there is making sure that the
network is seeded with all of the blocks
but and it's probably not something that
I want to sign up for just you know but
something to explore anyway because it
is interesting data and it is there is a
heavy demand for this data as well
people use it a lot so maybe it'd be
good for us to be able to connect more
to it and be more useful for it
so that's that's my main things yeah I
have to add to that Travis group Bitcoin
and Zeke here stuff because so it's the
I've written them in my at my first we
had protocol apps so feel free to
basically remove them all so basically
it was so back then I had no idea about
block chains and I have yeah City
JavaScript after like 8 years or
something so really like feel free to
just rewrite them completely you write
something you it's just yeah no I did
it's not that bad it's it's just that
they it's liking it so there's a catch
ones pretty good I think cuz cuz I can
we took some of your work and
contributed to I think we got to a
better place
yeah the Bitcoin one is missing
transactions but aside from that it it's
it's pretty it's pretty parallel with go
IPA first because it go between library
yes you guys busy night this is what I
did because like I only knew like I knew
in that thing so I what I took it to go
on and just did whatever go was doing it
hoped it was was correct yeah and well
and one of the reasons I'm feeling
enthusiastic about this is that I don't
know enough about these block chains and
I keep on running into these situations
where you know I hear these things
coming out of these communities and I
don't get the perspective they think
about things in different ways
and I'd like to understand that better
so driving in a bit more I think is
socially learn experience and see cash
parsing thing you might also do a
Bitcoin one so as far as I remember so
because like the Bitcoin JavaScript
library I'm using it's just like the
best one I could find but it's huge it's
like an insane amount of code so I have
no no idea why it is so big just in case
so maybe if you come to the conclusion
it is better to basically fork your seek
edge one and make it a Bitcoin yeah
might be right I think it would just be
a case of [ __ ] the cash one and
removing some stuff and it would
probably just work because yeah so yeah
I was thinking about that yeah I'll look
at that because I would like to get
transactions in there cuz it'd be nice
to be able to makes the IDs and
everything for them issue open like for
two years or so saying okay yeah so
perfect so yeah okay well I'll probably
be getting to that soon then I again I
came for this yeah yep cool cool
so you know what rod one thing I was
doing was rather than storing the blocks
because I the go IP LD plug in 54 easy
cash and yeah and even aetherium it's
not maintained anymore so I've actually
been just using using the JSON RPC and
storing that an IP LD the hard thing is
I don't know if there's actually like
the codec if you actually use the codec
that this is Seaboard JSON but it's an
aetherium transaction like like it is
one way of actually just encoding it
yeah I'd like to have C IDs that match
the way that we've been doing them in
the past which is the challenge so the
block matching the CID that you can then
decode because that's the ID you should
be able to inspect to see ID go into the
multi hash and get the actual block
identifier that's the same that they use
on their network that's that's what I
want to get I want to see gotcha
I'm a little I'm a little bit
intimidated by etherium I know there's
some complexity there that I'm not I'm
not particularly looking forward to and
I just
know enough about aetherium as well to
comment on that but I'm a little bit
afraid okay check your pending it with
kcal codec yeah yeah the main problem
with the etherion stuff is it like you
need context to how you traverse to
something and so and we don't have that
in the addressing format so that's why
there's all those other codecs because
those code are identifiers basically add
the contact me again and I think there's
also something about the way we the way
we address things with C idea is is you
know it's it's meant to be include a
hash of the block but I think for the
transactions for all these block chains
the transaction section of the blocks
use the merkel root not the not this
section hash so the way we're doing CID
please don't quite match transaction
identifiers which seems like a bit of a
problem to me and me well I'd like to
understand is why did we ever have a a
reserved a suggestion that CID should
also have absque in whereby instead of
doing a full hash they can take like a
Merkel root and style hash you know
instead of a full block ouch no but
there there is a thread that links
should be able to include pops so you
should be able to directly link into a
sub property so you would have basically
be like a CID pack pair would be the
link yeah I spit see the difference is
so with with a Bitcoin block header you
can take a CID and you can extract the
original block ID from the CID itself
because it's just a double shower 256 or
to whatever it is so it's a straight
double hash of the block and we've got a
double hash in multi hashes so that's
fine you can take a CID and then you
could you could extract that and then
you could take that reverse it for you
know big endian and stick it into a
block explore and
bet that you can't do the same thing as
far as I know with transactions because
when a block links to its transactions
its linking to the Merkel route not a
hash of the whole transaction section of
the block so the C IDs that we make
don't really bear any relationship as
far as I know to the transaction section
I mean the sort of okay though because
if you if you have that transaction
block you know it's a transaction block
you know that the length it is is not
actually pointing directly into the
transactions it's giving you the whole
context from the route so but you know
how to get from there to the
transactions anyway so yeah anyway look
I I'm speaking with half knowledge here
so I probably should just stop and then
come back to a later it's interesting
work anyway it's good education so I'm
enjoying being in this particular place
for now I wouldn't wanna I wouldn't want
to stay doing this I'm it doesn't thrill
me that much we don't have transactions
yes I'm working on so I'm working IP ID
so interplanetary identifiers which is a
did method basically publishing
cryptographic key material in metadata
to IP NS in the form of IP LD and I've
been working on how to cryptograph Lee
sign that using native C Boris so and I
linked a paper that I wrote for the
rebooting or the trust I was supposed to
be in Argentina just two weeks ago and
got cancelled and protocol labs was nice
enough to pay for my trip but actually I
had to cancel it because that's this
global pandemic it's just so annoying
but um I've left some feedback if you
get a chance to read the paper I
mentioned a couple of github issues
about allowing for tag 98 in addition to
48:42 because then actually I can do
native
signing in C bore with a tag 98 4 with a
with a payload pointing to an IP LD tag
4842 and I think and then that allows me
to keep everything in C bore rather than
trying to do the representation COEs a
or Jose signatures in IPL D and so so
this goes into more of a the IANA is
mimetype representation and there's
another github issue that I have out
there about applications /c bore plus
IPL D so basically this is strict IPL D
encoded in C bore and there's also IPL D
plus JSON and I think Michael you had
asked me about what does the plus mean
the plus mean is that you basically it's
a constrained type there's like you have
application JSON and then you actually I
can have applications JSON + LD which
means link data so you basically it it's
Jason but it's a more constrained
version of Jason which is Jason LD and
the same thing applies here which is
that Sita C bore plus IP IP LD means
that this is canonical see more
representation in native format but it's
represents IP LD objects guy I dig into
this a little bit because there's
another thread about adding a codec for
cosine and and just say for that matter
and it heated up a little bit there's
actually I think Tech's office looks
interested in if we're looking at what
to do there but I mean the most obvious
thing to do would be to just like be
able to traverse into the payload and so
that it actually like will decode the
payment copper lien when you want it to
burst into it and yes we're looking at
how to build that out as a clinic right
now and I would just want to make sure
that none of it like confliction
anything we've had to do here there's
anything all that you had to do here
that we should be yeah the only thing is
actually in strict IP LD it ignores
everything except for tag 42 so it won't
allow for tag 9
and so I think that's my dilemma which
is that it's no longer IPL D strict IPL
D because strict IPL D ignores
everything except for tag 42 in
northwards beat deterministic and that's
where the Big C more specifically my
taxi bori I'm sorry yes IC boy yeah and
so if we add egg per se we would just
add enough for them for that tag I still
know other times okay so that that's a
good compromise which is actually if
allow a codec to be chose a plus C bore
then it allows for the tag 98 in one
case and 42 and of case I'm all good
yeah yeah so it won't be the clinic
won't because they it'll be dag Cossack
so it's like aren't angular dex emails
plus whatever winging for which includes
like payload decode a and so there's an
example at the bottom of my rebooting of
a trust which is actually written in in
CD DL representation so basically it's a
tag 98 where the payload points to a tag
40s who which is the CID and this should
be a also an authentic signature I think
I actually did go through the pain of
actually validating to make sure this
was working
that's an interesting take so the
payload is always a Lincoln it is yes so
in this case it's a cozy signature tag
98 but this is in the format where the
payload is a CID tag 42 oh so you're
just signing link you're not signing
correct oh okay and but it tells you
that this is an EDD which is algorithm
minus 7 which is it translates if you
look at the comment is EDD SI 256 which
is redundant I think in the CID but it
actually is properly formatted cozy with
the payload here is actually a mess of
what you sign is actually is is this tag
42 the CID
at least the binary representation of
what that CID means I'm sorry yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah binary
representation of the CID right and it
ignores the tag information when it does
the signing right yeah okay interesting
okay that's I guess I'm just think about
that for a little bit I mean what one
limitation here is that you can you
can't inline the payload driver so every
block is where they're going to be two
blocks would include the signature that
is an interesting approach I think maybe
okay great yeah this is great I'll think
gives me a lot to think about Thanks
cool alright but now there are any other
open things you wonder this crisis oh no
after you stop the recording I'll share
one more thing with you yeah cool yeah
so okay if there's anything else then
goodbye to everyone and goodbye on the
live stream and we see us all next week
[Music]